There's just so much debt. There's so
much that has to be financed here over
the next 24 months. It's it's
eyepopping. Um, you know, the latest
estimate is on the order of 5.3
trillion.
>> Wow.
>> So, Miriam,
>> yes. Tell us.
>> Another week, another week to take on
>> uh here at WSJ's Take on the Week and
>> it's a doozy earnings-wise. We're really
in the meat of earning season and so
we've got reports from big names across
a bunch of different industries. What's
a report that you're looking forward to
this week?
>> I'm looking at Chevron and Exxon um two
of the oil majors because of what's been
happening in Venezuela. Um, you know,
the US has basically taken control of
Venezuelan oil production and in theory
at least, Chevron is the oil major that
stands to benefit the most because it
already has a presence in Venezuela and
it wants to have access to that oil. But
Chevron has also said it's not ready to
just go barreling in, no pun intended,
to Venezuela because it needs a few
assurances. First, one is that the
government will be stable, which we're
not quite to that point yet. And the
other is that um oil prices will be high
enough that it makes sense economically
to invest there.
>> Yeah. There seems to be this weird
tension where the the point of it is to
lower oil prices, right?
>> Yeah. Trump has said $50 a barrel is
where he wants oil to be, but Chevron's
like, "Well, that's not high enough for
to make it worth our while."
>> Yeah. And I know that there's
complexities in the pricing of oil. you
know, a barrel here is not necessarily
the same price as a barrel there, and it
has to do with the the types of of
refining facilities that are in the US
Gulf and things like that. But it just
overall doesn't seem like Chevron is
super keen on this Venezuela opportunity
at the moment. But I guess when they
report earnings, maybe we'll hear more
about maybe they'll give some outlines
or just some updates or some some
economic kind of forecast. I think at
the very least there will be analyst
questions about it because it's a big,
you know, potential factor for Chevron
>> and it actually really plays into what
has been going on with Chevron's stock
and also Exxons over the past year.
Chevron has been in the process of
acquiring Hess, which was a big tricky
acquisition that kind of weighed on
their stock for a while. They sort of
underperformed uh Exxon last year um
>> by a lot. Yeah,
>> by a lot. And one of the big rationes
for acquiring Hess is they have a big
opportunity for oil extraction in uh
Guyana, which is what Chevron has kind
of been talking about as their big
opportunity, not Venezuela. So, it will
be interesting to see how they put, you
know, how they might weigh those two
different opportunities. Exxon,
meanwhile, their stock actually did
pretty well in 2025, better than
Chevron, and that's because they've
really been putting pedal to the metal
and doing lots of extraction with some
of their US assets like in the Peran
basin. And so despite the fact that oil
prices were falling over the course of
2025, Exxon was really producing more
and therefore kind of making more money
and their stock did well. and an Exxon
executive came out and said basically,
you know, what Chevron was Chevron was
kind of thinking about Venezuela in and
they said it out loud, which is
basically, you know, we're not really
interested in Venezuela unless we can
get stability and pricing to make sense
for us.
>> Uh it should be a pretty interesting
couple of earnings reports. Um but let's
not, you know, lose sight of what we've
all been talking about forever and ever
and ever around here when it comes to
markets and earnings, and that's the big
tech companies. You've got uh the first
couple of the mag seven stocks. We've
got Meta and Microsoft reporting, but
also I want to point out Seagate.
Seagate is a company that crushed the
market last year. They are one of these
memory makers. And so, of course, with
all the computing need that comes with
AI, not just the data centers and the
storage, but also the memory that helps
the chips and you know, keeps everything
flowing. and Seagate. What's interesting
about them, Dan Gallagher, our colleague
over at Herd on the Street, wrote that
Seagate and other memory makers have
really benefited from the fact that
there's a limited amount of of memory.
And one reason that these companies have
been doing so well is that they're not
in any rush to make a lot more. They've
been through boom and bust cycles.
>> They kind of control the supply of
memory.
>> Yes. And so interesting.
>> They're not interested in necessarily
leaning in to like, oh, we're just going
to make tons more of these things
because they they know that there are
other sides to these cycles. And it's
funny because I always think of Seagate
as like the little hard drives that you
plug into the side of your like those,
you know, little consumer products, but
that's not what they do anymore, right?
>> Old news. Old news with with those
companies. It's all about this like big
industrial scale uh AI opportunity. And
Seagate stock is already up 25% in 2026.
We're like barely halfway through
January. So, that's a company that I
think people will be really focused on.
>> But I want to talk about Meta because we
one of our colleagues had a story about
how they were downsizing. They were
firing some people in their metaverse
unit. And you know, remember that's the
virtual reality unit which they, you
know, created to great fanfare not too
long ago, a few years ago.
>> The Oculus helmet, these different
worlds, there was avatar version of Mark
Zuckerberg, right?
>> The vision for that like never really
came to pass. Like it never really
became a big deal. And so it kind of
makes me think, you know, now they've
shifted all that focus to AI and to
building out data centers. But like what
is the AI proposition for Meta? You
know, they're not a search engine per
se. They have these platforms. How will
AI be integrated into these platforms?
How will it help drive the bottom line
for Meta? And I think that sort of
remains to be seen. And you know, you
could kind of see that in terms of how
the stocks perform too. It's actually
not done so well uh over the past year.
>> Before we move on, I want to point out
that Microsoft is also reporting this
upcoming week. Microsoft is also in this
phase of are they going to be a big
winner from AI? Are they not? They're
also like Facebook spending sorry like
Meta now Meta spending tons of money on
their AI bets. But the conversation
around Microsoft is a little bit
different because their core business or
their existing their past exciting
business cloud computing is doing really
really well these days and they're
making tons and tons of money and that's
giving them a lot more profit and
resources to allow them to to continue
to
>> a nice cushion that and permission from
investors to do more experimentation I
guess
>> right so in this discussion of what
software companies because really we're
talking about software at the end of the
day whether it's online or lives on your
computer or in the cloud. Um, which of
those will be hyperscalers, i.e.
companies that are experiencing just
like tremendous growth rates, you know,
50% 100% growth rates or are they
>> powered by AI?
>> Powered by AI, or are they just going to
be a company that's really good and
profitable, but not quite growing at
that level? And I think this will be a
critical year.
>> Uh, and and the the the first earnings
report of the year will be really
important for both Microsoft and Meta to
kind of set the tone. And while we do
have all these big and important
earnings reports, they could all be
overshadowed again because, you know,
this past week we had so much macro news
that like nobody paid attention to
anything else. Um, you know, we had the
World Economic Forum with uh where Trump
made a speech. Um, and leading up to
that, he had, you know, threatened to
impose all of these tariffs on uh the
European countries that were standing in
his way when it came to Greenland. Trump
wants the US to take over Greenland
because it has, you know, important
natural resources that he wants, you
know, the US to have exclusive access
to. And this was leading to a very
uncomfortable situation with some of our
biggest allies leading up to his speech
at Davos. Um, but then all of a sudden
on Wednesday, he said he was backing
down on the tariffs.
>> We talked about this uh on the previous
episode with Monica talking about policy
and policy volatility and geopolitics
and all of that. And we talked about is
this the return of the sell America
trade? Well, we saw that trade rear its
head, right? And what is the sell
America trade? Well, I guess I would
define it by selling US stocks, selling
US bonds, buying gold, buying stocks or
bonds in other countries.
>> We saw the return of that early in the
week when it looked like, you know,
Trump was about to essentially blow up
NATO uh in order to get control of
Greenland. once it's was clear that he
was looking for a deal, right? And
obviously we'll see how these things
play out. There's lots of twists and
turns. You know, that backed off a
little bit. You also meanwhile had what
was going on in the Japanese bond market
where Japanese long-term bonds were
plunging in value, yields were rising as
what people were saying were kind of the
global bond vigilantes really looking at
Japan's fiscal situation and saying we
don't want to own Japanese debt for the
long term. So that raises two
interesting points and and really the
focus of them is the bond market, right?
One is do people want to be long the
prospects of the United States for the
long-term future, right? Do do they want
to fund all the things that we want to
spend on whether that's defense uh or
otherwise? And also, are there bond
vigilantes out there that are really
activated about, you know, the long-term
debts of the the biggest countries in
the world? I want to pause here for a
second because when we talk about like
the sell America trade and we talk about
the importance of micro versus macro,
one thing that we on this show are
trying to keep in mind is how individual
investors might navigate these things.
Do people make big picture decisions in
their portfolio that do they switch
between being overweight stocks
or overweight bonds? Do they buy and
sell individual stocks to express these
views? Right? like if there's a tariff
threat on a certain industry,
pharmaceuticals, do they sell
pharmaceutical companies and buy some
other industry or are people really just
sticking with their index funds and
maybe buying the index of another
country? Right? We've talked a lot about
people investing overseas. So, I would
really like if people from our audience
could come up with some questions or
talk to us about how they navigate these
big macro situations. We want to hear
from you.
>> Yeah, we want to hear from you. We we
want to make this show relevant to the
way that you invest and think about
these things because, you know, we talk
to big-time money managers and things
like that who basically have to make
moves sometimes, but but if you're, you
know, an everyday investor, you don't
have to do anything. You could just sit
tight. You could express your views in
any number of ways.
>> And what we don't know is, are you
buying individual stocks? Are you buying
ETFs? Are you just kind of setting it
and forgetting it and listening to our
voices and saying, "hm, that's nice."
Um, we'd love to know how you're putting
this advice into action.
>> Yeah. So, if you're uh looking at this
on, you know, YouTube, you can leave
something in the comments, Spotify,
other platforms. You can also send us an
email, take on the week at wsj.com.
And, you know, ask us questions, give us
feedback about how we talk about these
things, tell us how you think about
them. We really want to make your
approach and the way you think about
these investments a key part of the show
and really have a try and have a
conversation going uh with with with the
audience because that's we sit around
all day talking about what would be
relevant to people. Well, the best way
to find out is to actually ask them. So,
send us a note, drop a comment. We'd
love to see it.
>> We have um some pending Supreme Court
decisions. We had hearings um this past
week um from the Supreme Court about uh
Lisa Cook uh the Fed governor who Trump
is trying to fire and on whether he has
the authority to do so and the justices
seemed skeptical of his authority uh to
do that. that you know that's a big
question that will relate a lot to the
question of Fed Federal Reserve
independence
>> which is a big part of that sell America
sort of
>> totally feeding into that um and could
you know be showing up in the bond
markets if people really get the sense
that you know the Federal Reserve's
independence is at risk and that is why
we decided to speak with Greg Peters
he's the co-CIO for public fixed income
at PIM which is the asset management arm
of insurance giant Credential Financial
and he's kind of a bond expert.
>> Yeah, I think this is an important
conversation because those public
markets which include, you know,
corporate bonds, uh, government bonds,
leverage loans for highly indebted
companies, that's where I think a lot of
the action might really be this year.
And it's not just what we were talking
about with, you know, big picture about
Fed independence. We're also talking
about this AI financing wave. I think
that's a hugely important market for
2026.
>> Definitely. But I just want to note
before we hear that that we spoke with
Greg before President Trump gave his
speech in Davos and before he reversed
the tariffs on Europe that he had
threatened earlier. So some of this is
from an earlier time.
>> It's hard to line these things up.
They're all they're all so fluid. Uh
well, it's a great conversation and
we're going to have that after the
break.
>> Welcome Greg and thanks so much for
joining us.
>> Thanks for having me. The next FOMC
meeting is this coming week and market
expectations are pretty heavily weighted
toward no change. Do you agree with
that? Um, and if so, what do you think
will be the thing that causes the Fed to
ultimately make a change?
>> I do agree with that. Uh, that's been
pre-baked and I think that was cemented
even more given the news flow um around
the DOJ investigation. Um, and
>> and that's the DOJ investigation into
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell.
>> Yes. and the Fed broadly. Yes. So, um
you know, I think that um rightly or
wrongly uh the market, you know, priced
out any scoch of um of cut uh based on
that. That's how the market interpreted
it. Uh whether that's right or wrong, I
don't know. Uh but just put that on the
side. I know it's really hard to do
that, but uh the data itself um doesn't
really support um any cut at this point
in time, right? you have uh uh you know
growth that's actually quite robust. Uh
you have inflation at least per the
latest reading uh you know coming down.
Um and um you know I think the Fed
rightfully uh is in wait and see mode
and that's what the market's pricing in.
So, you already mentioned the um DOJ
investigation. That's obviously brought
up renewed worries about Fed
independence, but yet the market hasn't
really reacted in a major way to it or
at least in a lasting way. What do you
think it will take to get the market to
believe that something, you know, has
happened that puts the Fed's
independence at risk?
>> That's right. I think it's important to
remember that independence isn't a
binary function, right? It's a across a
continuum. Um and the market read last
week once again rightly or wrongly was
that was an overstep. Uh and in fact
that that almost cemented uh uh the the
independence piece of it, right? You saw
both sides of the aisle, you know, kind
of speak out against it. Uh and so the
market interpreted that particular event
as as a perverse positive in a way. Uh
in part
>> because you saw the push back. you you
saw the push back um um and the markets
interpreted that as saving independence,
whatever that means. So um that's why
the market didn't react.
>> We learned in December that the economy
grew by a stronger than expected annual
rate of 4.3%.
And AI spending was a really big
component of that. Um and it seems like
it's going to continue to be a major
driver of that. But how sustainable do
you think that is over the long run?
>> I think it's sustainable for quite some
time. And what I mean by quite some time
uh the next uh you know 24 months. Um so
if you look at uh the AI spend and the
impact on GDP growth uh we accounted
that AI spend to be about a third of the
growth in the first half of last year
and about half uh uh in the second half
of last year. Um and so this has been a
a a clear driver of the economy. But the
real question is will it drive
productivity?
uh and we are seeing signs of uh
improved productivity. I think that's in
part why you're seeing the labor market
being so anemic uh as you know
corporates are really kind of thinking
through their labor profile in the face
of you know AI.
>> They don't want to hire a bunch in
advance of these expected savings
exactly later on. But couldn't we also
have um you know the productivity gains
never materialize and people realize oh
maybe we do have to go back to hiring
>> you could I mean all these things are
possible uh um
>> I think it's a low probability quite
honest uh the question is how big will
the turn of productivity be will it be
50 basis points 100 basis points
>> you know two basis points right so um
>> uh but it matters you know getting to a
different growth growth plane through
productivity uh is crucial not only from
a debt sustainability standpoint as you
can kind of classically help grow your
way out of the debt problem. Uh hope
does spring internal um but it also just
allows you know corporates to do better
uh but the impact on labor um is very
much an open question. Mhm. Speaking of
AI, you guys have um I think raised a
fund related to investing in data
centers. Um and obviously data centers
are a huge you know investment um
opportunity. How does Pum think about
investing in data centers and have you
participated in any of the big recent
financings?
>> Yeah, so I think the first um thing to
mention is there's just so much debt.
There's so much that has to be financed
here over the next 24 months. It's it's
eyepopping. Um, you know, the latest
estimate is on the order of 5.3
trillion.
>> Wow.
>> Um, and that's debt that has to hit the
marketplace for the most part. About 1
and a half trillion will be financed
through free cash flow, the
hyperscalers. So, it leaves,
>> you know, basically 4 trillion that has
to hit the uh, you know, the bond
market. So there's going to be this
massive supply wave to finance.
>> I think investors have to be quite
careful here.
>> Um um and we are quite careful. The way
we're thinking about it from an
investment standpoint is through the
construction financing side.
>> Okay.
>> Um ultimately it's just called a fancy
construction loan. Uh uh uh but we like
the collateral. We like the back stop
>> and the collateral is the data center
itself. Collateral is the data center uh
andor the leases.
>> Okay.
>> Um and uh it's much shorter tenor in
nature. Uh so you're not making this
play for 10 years, 20 years, 30 years.
What has really been eye popping and
headscratching for me is in the
investment grade corporate market that
these hyperscalers have come to the
market in unsecured way for long-term
debt. Um and you know just given how
much we don't know and I would submit
that 40 years is a very long time.
>> So what are we talking about in terms of
your preferred time horizon?
>> Well it's you know five years in in I
say um um and you know the question is
how involved will we be a year from now?
My guess is a lot less involved. So, we
see this opportunity today, but I'm not
convinced there'll be a massive
opportunity 12, 24 months from now as it
all has to be refinanced too, right? So,
um that's the first thing. There's this
massive refinancing that has to occur.
Um and then the useful life of the chips
and the racks themselves are an open
question. Um, and it's really hard to
get a return on invested capital when
you constantly have to, you know,
reinvest in such an expensive way um in
uh in the chip piece of it. So that's
what worries me.
>> What is the biggest risk in your mind um
on when you're looking at data center
investments?
If you listen to the hyperscalers
themselves,
they believe that it's essentially a
winner take all environment. As an
investor, particularly as a bond
investor, if you invest across, you
know, the different hyperscalers, you're
definitionally, if you take their words
at face value, investing in six that are
not going to make it,
>> one winner and five losers or six or or
however it is.
>> Exactly. Right. So that is that is just
the inherent problem uh from a debt
investing side. Um that's why I think
it's so important to have a good
structure to have good collateral to do
whatever you can to mitigate that
downside. Um but I see that as the
biggest risk. uh just definitionally not
everyone can win and the markets are
feeding them all hoping for one.
>> So um Pim last year merged its public
fixed income and its private credit
investing teams and I write a lot about
private credit so I'm interested in
this. You've said that, you know, you
think the lines between public and
private credit are blurring and that
there's this sort of convergence
happening, but what is like what does
that mean as an investor and what does
that mean in terms of in practice in
terms of how you allocate?
>> Yeah. So, I'm really excited about this.
I I I've been working on this um almost
exclusively for the past nine months and
you know building out an investment
process around public and privates. Um
the way I think about it uh is in very
simple terms. Um investors um who think
about their asset allocation in a siloed
way miss the relative value
opportunities. And what I mean by that
is if you know I'm a pension fund and
and have a direct allocation into middle
market direct lending
>> that's making loans to mid-size
businesses. Yeah. I'm in that whether
it's a good environment or a bad
environment. Um that's my allocation
>> because I've said this is going to be my
allocation and I'm stuck.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Um but if you have a manager who
has capabilities in middle market direct
lending um and real estate uh you know
debt financing and public fixed income
uh then they can allocate
uh uh for you so to speak and take
advantage of those dislocations.
>> So does that just mean more dynamic
investing?
>> It does. That's exactly what it means.
Uh and portfolio theory is simple in a
way that you know the more levers that
you have to pull um then the better
ability to create alpha and that's what
we endeavor to do. And so I look at the
world uh changing not so much around
this demarcation of public and private
>> but around the continuum of liquidity. M
>> um and you know there's there's
securities in public fixed income that
are not necessarily liquid that are in
the quoteunquote liquid bucket,
>> right? Just because they're public.
>> Yeah. Uh and you know smaller high yield
bonds or lever loans is a great example
of that. Um and so I think investors
will look at it across that liquidity
continuum and this total portfolio
approach uh lens more than just this
demarcation madeup demarcation of this
is public this is private this goes here
that goes there and they should never
meet. So I I I see the world changing
>> and some of the private credit players
are trying to create more liquidity in
the private markets as well.
Absolutely. And I think that's just
going to uh hasten the change. Um as a
lot of investors moved into private
credit the past, you know, five years
because of the illquidity, right? Right.
It was, you know,
>> I can get paid a premium for this
illquidity, right?
>> Yeah. The infinite sharp ratio, right?
If if your security isn't marked, then
there's no volatility and you know, you
just have, you know, any return that you
have is is a great sharp. Basically,
>> with a public security, the it's priced
minute by minute and you see the the
price change and your, you know, your
holdings could be worth a lot less at
the end of the day. With a private
security, it might you might go for
months without a change.
>> 100%. And
>> and like I'm very influenced by my own
career, which is going back
uh uh when I was in the high yield bond
market um and then the lever loan market
came about um and it was categorized the
same exact way as private credit. It was
um senior to cap structure uh it was
better covenants uh and it had better
sharp ratios because it wasn't marked
nearly as much. Um, and what we saw
happen over time is that the high yield
bond market and the lever loan market
essentially is the same market. Um, and
investors conduct that relative value
across loans um, and and bonds quite
freely. So, we've seen this movie
before. I think it's poised to happen
again. And loans weren't even
securities. And that was more tricky
than you thought it would be. Um so I
think it's inevitable. And then last
point is it's happening whether you like
it or not. So in our portfolios
uh we are being refinanced out of our
public bonds into private securities and
vice versa. And so it's it's it's a
question of pace, not what if.
>> And the ability to be nimble and to be
able to own all different kinds of
things, I guess.
>> Absolutely.
>> Yeah. We're going to take a quick break.
When we come back, we'll have one more
question for Greg Peters of PIM.
In 30 seconds or less, what's your
biggest concern as an investor as you
look out over the next 12 months?
>> My biggest concern over the next 12
months um is the overheating concern. Uh
you know, we have a situation where, you
know, GDP growth is picking up. We have
a tremendous amount of fiscal stimulus
coming through. We have lower energy
prices. We have a push towards
deregulation.
Uh you have the prospects of lower um
interest rates as well, at least on the
front end. Uh and that could push us um
into this overheating higher
inflationary environment. Um, and what
worries me more than anything else is uh
the uh upsurge in inflation as we saw
that story play out before. Uh, and
there's nowhere really to hide from
that.
>> Thanks so much.
>> Thank you.
I dare them to do this
and not swing around on the chair. Like
it's like make it casual. Don't Don't
you dare move.
>> I know a little bit.
Stay absolutely still.
>> Okay.
>> Don't use your hands. Don't talk with
your hands.